README.md, before:

# node-roku-client

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/roku-client.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/roku-client)

Discover Roku devices via `ssdp` and control the device with methods that perform `http` requests to the device.

**requirements:**
  - node `6.0.0 or higher`
  - connected to the same network as the Roku device.
  - a router/network that supports UPnP (for ssdp)

## Installation

`$ npm install roku-client`

## Usage

```js
// es2015
import Client, { keys } from 'roku-client';

// commonjs
const { Client, keys } = require('roku-client');

Client.discover(/* timeout, defaults to 10 seconds */)
  .then((client) => {
    console.log(`roku device found at ${client.ip}`);
    return client.apps();
  })
  .then((apps) => {
    apps.forEach(app => console.log(app));
    // [{ id, name, type, version }, ...]
  })
  .catch(err => {
    console.error(err.stack)
  });

// Or, if the roku address is already known
const client = new Client('http://192.168.1.17:8060');
client.keypress(keys.VOLUME_UP);
```
## Client.discover()

Invoking `Client.discover()` will return a promise which resolves to a Client object on success. The Client will be initialized to the address of the first device to respond. This client object will contain the methods needed to control a roku device. Commands are sent to the Roku device via `HTTP` protocol as found on the [docs][1].

If there are mutiple Roku devices on the network, call `discover` with the wait parameter set to true. It will return a promise that resolves to a list of all addresses found.

```js
import { discover } from 'roku-client';

discover(10, true).then((addresses) => {
  console.log(addresses);
  // ['http://192.168.1.17:8060', 'http://192.168.1.18:8060', ...]
});
```

## API Methods
| **Method Name** | **Return Type** | **Details** |
|---|---|---|
| `ip` | `string` | network ip and port `http://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:8060` |
| `.apps()` | `Promise<{id: string, name: string, type: string, version: string}[]>` |  List of all apps installed on this device. |
| `.active()` | `Promise<{id: string, name: string, type: string, version: string}\|null>}` | A single object representing the active app, or null if the home screen is active. |
| `.info()` | `Promise<Object>` | A map of this Roku device's properties. Varies from device to device. |
| `.keypress(key: string)` | `Promise<void>` | Send a keypress from [keys.js](lib/keys.js) or a single character to send that letter (e.g. to an input box). |
| `.keydown(key: string)`| `Promise<void>` | The same as `keypress` but tells the Roku to hold the key down. |
| `.keyup(key: string)` | `Promise<void>` | The same as `keyup` but tells the Roku to release a key held with `keyup` ( a no-op if the key was not held). |
| `.icon(appId: number)` | `Promise<string>` | Saves the image to a temp file and returns the filename. |
| `.launch(appId: number)` | `Promise<void>` | Launch the given app by its id. |
| `.text(text: string)` | `Promise<void>` | Send the text string as a series of `keypress` actions. |
| `.command()` | `Commander` | Returns a `Commander` instance, which allows for easily chaining key commands to send to the Roku. |

### Keypress Values

[keys.js](lib/keys.js) contains a list of keypress values understood by Roku. It can be accessed programmatically:

```js
import { keys } from 'roku-client';

keys.HOME // 'Home'
keys.LEFT // 'Left'
```

### Commander

The `Client#command()` method provides a simpler interface over the keypress and text methods.
It allows them to be chained and repeated and handles all promise chaining internally.

Each key within the [keys.js](lib/keys.js) module is available on the commander
instance in camelcase form. Additionally, a `.text()` method is available to send
text strings. Each key command takes an optional number to specify the number
of times to repeat the command, defaulting to `1`.

After chaining the desired methods, call `.send()` to send them to the Roku. `.send()` returns
a promise that completes when all buttons have been pressed, or when the Roku fails to respond to
any of the commands. A `Commander` instance should not be reused after calling `.send()`.

#### Examples

##### Navigate to a search box and enter text
```js
client.command()
  .up()
  .left()
  .select()
  .text('Breaking Bad')
  .enter()
  .send()
  .then(/* commands succeeded */)
  .catch(err => { /* commands failed */ });
```

##### Turn the volume up by 10
```js
client.command()
  .volumeUp(10)
  .send();
```

##### Conditionally perform a command
```js
let command = client.comand();
if (goUp) {
  command = command.up(10);
} else {
  command = command.down(10);
}
command
  .right()
  .select()
  .send();
```

##### Konami code
```js
client.command()
  .up(2)
  .down(2)
  .left()
  .right()
  .left()
  .right()
  .text('ba')
  .enter()
  .send();
```

## Testing
`$ npm test`

This will run the linter, unit tests, and coverage.

## References

[Roku - External Control Service Commands][1]<br>
[Roku - Keypress Key Values][2]

### Additional Information

Tested on OSX & raspberry pi w/ raspbian jessie, and with Roku TV.

<!-- urls -->
[1]: https://sdkdocs.roku.com/display/sdkdoc/External+Control+API
[2]: https://sdkdocs.roku.com/display/sdkdoc/External+Control+API#ExternalControlAPI-KeypressKeyValues

Commit message:

Modify to support React Native

README.md, after:

# react-native-roku-client

This is a fork of [https://github.com/bschlenk/node-roku-client](node-roku-client) modified to work in a JS only react-native environment. The main difference is that this library doesn't support discovery of roku devices on the network. Yes, this makes it essentially useless. This requires knowing the ip of the roku.

If you are looking for a react-native version that **does** support discovery, you should look for another library.

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/roku-client.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/roku-client)

Discover Roku devices via `ssdp` and control the device with methods that perform `http` requests to the device.

**requirements:**
  - node `6.0.0 or higher`
  - connected to the same network as the Roku device.
  - a router/network that supports UPnP (for ssdp)

## Installation

`$ npm install roku-client`

## Usage

```js
// es2015
import Client, { keys } from 'roku-client';

// commonjs
const { Client, keys } = require('roku-client');

Client.discover(/* timeout, defaults to 10 seconds */)
  .then((client) => {
    console.log(`roku device found at ${client.ip}`);
    return client.apps();
  })
  .then((apps) => {
    apps.forEach(app => console.log(app));
    // [{ id, name, type, version }, ...]
  })
  .catch(err => {
    console.error(err.stack)
  });

// Or, if the roku address is already known
const client = new Client('http://192.168.1.17:8060');
client.keypress(keys.VOLUME_UP);
```
## Client.discover()

Invoking `Client.discover()` will return a promise which resolves to a Client object on success. The Client will be initialized to the address of the first device to respond. This client object will contain the methods needed to control a roku device. Commands are sent to the Roku device via `HTTP` protocol as found on the [docs][1].

If there are mutiple Roku devices on the network, call `discover` with the wait parameter set to true. It will return a promise that resolves to a list of all addresses found.

```js
import { discover } from 'roku-client';

discover(10, true).then((addresses) => {
  console.log(addresses);
  // ['http://192.168.1.17:8060', 'http://192.168.1.18:8060', ...]
});
```

## API Methods
| **Method Name** | **Return Type** | **Details** |
|---|---|---|
| `ip` | `string` | network ip and port `http://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:8060` |
| `.apps()` | `Promise<{id: string, name: string, type: string, version: string}[]>` |  List of all apps installed on this device. |
| `.active()` | `Promise<{id: string, name: string, type: string, version: string}\|null>}` | A single object representing the active app, or null if the home screen is active. |
| `.info()` | `Promise<Object>` | A map of this Roku device's properties. Varies from device to device. |
| `.keypress(key: string)` | `Promise<void>` | Send a keypress from [keys.js](lib/keys.js) or a single character to send that letter (e.g. to an input box). |
| `.keydown(key: string)`| `Promise<void>` | The same as `keypress` but tells the Roku to hold the key down. |
| `.keyup(key: string)` | `Promise<void>` | The same as `keyup` but tells the Roku to release a key held with `keyup` ( a no-op if the key was not held). |
| `.icon(appId: number)` | `Promise<string>` | Saves the image to a temp file and returns the filename. |
| `.launch(appId: number)` | `Promise<void>` | Launch the given app by its id. |
| `.text(text: string)` | `Promise<void>` | Send the text string as a series of `keypress` actions. |
| `.command()` | `Commander` | Returns a `Commander` instance, which allows for easily chaining key commands to send to the Roku. |

### Keypress Values

[keys.js](lib/keys.js) contains a list of keypress values understood by Roku. It can be accessed programmatically:

```js
import { keys } from 'roku-client';

keys.HOME // 'Home'
keys.LEFT // 'Left'
```

### Commander

The `Client#command()` method provides a simpler interface over the keypress and text methods.
It allows them to be chained and repeated and handles all promise chaining internally.

Each key within the [keys.js](lib/keys.js) module is available on the commander
instance in camelcase form. Additionally, a `.text()` method is available to send
text strings. Each key command takes an optional number to specify the number
of times to repeat the command, defaulting to `1`.

After chaining the desired methods, call `.send()` to send them to the Roku. `.send()` returns
a promise that completes when all buttons have been pressed, or when the Roku fails to respond to
any of the commands. A `Commander` instance should not be reused after calling `.send()`.

#### Examples

##### Navigate to a search box and enter text
```js
client.command()
  .up()
  .left()
  .select()
  .text('Breaking Bad')
  .enter()
  .send()
  .then(/* commands succeeded */)
  .catch(err => { /* commands failed */ });
```

##### Turn the volume up by 10
```js
client.command()
  .volumeUp(10)
  .send();
```

##### Conditionally perform a command
```js
let command = client.comand();
if (goUp) {
  command = command.up(10);
} else {
  command = command.down(10);
}
command
  .right()
  .select()
  .send();
```

##### Konami code
```js
client.command()
  .up(2)
  .down(2)
  .left()
  .right()
  .left()
  .right()
  .text('ba')
  .enter()
  .send();
```

## Testing
`$ npm test`

This will run the linter, unit tests, and coverage.

## References

[Roku - External Control Service Commands][1]<br>
[Roku - Keypress Key Values][2]

### Additional Information

Tested on OSX & raspberry pi w/ raspbian jessie, and with Roku TV.

<!-- urls -->
[1]: https://sdkdocs.roku.com/display/sdkdoc/External+Control+API
[2]: https://sdkdocs.roku.com/display/sdkdoc/External+Control+API#ExternalControlAPI-KeypressKeyValues
